[KB-218] Summary (#225)
chhoumann/thesis-chemcam: report_thesis/src/sections/summary.tex

\section*{Summary}
In our thesis, we aim to enhance the quantitative analysis of \gls{libs} data for predicting major oxide compositions in geological samples.
Our study integrates machine learning techniques and ensemble regression models to tackle challenges such as high dimensionality, multicollinearity, and limited data availability.

> Key innovations include the use of stacked generalization for improved model performance and an automated hyperparameter optimization framework, which enhances the accuracy and robustness of predictions.

Reviewer: BTW is it weird to have `which enhances the accuracy and robustness of predictions.` at the end, as it implies that it's the optimization framework that causes that?

```suggestion
Key innovations include the use of stacked generalization for improved model performance and an automated optimization framework, which enhances the accuracy and robustness of predictions.
```

The resulting spectra can be analyzed using machine learning models to determine the presence and concentration of major oxides, providing insights into Mars' geology.
However, predicting oxide compositions from \gls{libs} data presents significant computational challenges due to the data's high dimensionality, non-linearity, and multicollinearity.
Additionally, the high cost of data collection often results in small datasets, making it difficult to build accurate and robust models.

\vspace{0.5em}

Previous research has attempted to improve predictions using regression techniques and dimensionality reduction methods, enhancing both accuracy and interpretability.
However, the complex, nonlinear nature of \gls{libs} data remains a significant challenge, necessitating more adaptive and robust machine learning strategies.
Our thesis aims to build upon previous work by developing a machine learning pipeline tailored to the unique characteristics of \gls{libs} data, aiming for higher prediction accuracy and robustness.

\vspace{0.5em}

> To achieve these objectives, we systematically explore ten different machine learning models identified through extensive literature review and the consideration of unconventional approaches.

Reviewer: 12 with the NNs?
```suggestion
To achieve these objectives, we systematically explore twelve different machine learning models identified through extensive literature review and the consideration of unconventional approaches.
```

```suggestion
To achieve these objectives, we systematically explore 12 different machine learning models identified through extensive literature review and the consideration of unconventional **approaches.**
```

These models fall into three categories: ensemble learning models, linear and regularization models, and neural network models.
Additionally, we investigate various preprocessing techniques, including scaling, dimensionality reduction, and data transformation.

> We developed a customized k-fold data partitioning algorithm to ensure rigorous evaluation and prevent data leakage.

Reviewer: Customized is implied by `we developed` (for this task).

```suggestion
We developed a k-fold data partitioning algorithm to ensure rigorous evaluation and prevent data leakage.
```

This method involved assigning fold numbers sequentially using a modulo operation for a random-like distribution and handling extreme values by redistributing them evenly across the training folds.
Additionally, we managed extreme concentration values by identifying them at specific percentiles and ensuring they were distributed evenly across the training folds, preventing any single fold from being disproportionately influenced.

> We created a web application with a slider to determine the percentile value for handling extreme values and dropdown menus to select the target oxide and the cross-validation method, which would then plots to visualize the distribution of extreme values across the folds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We created a web application that allows users to determine percentile values for handling extreme values and select the target oxide and cross-validation method. The application then visualizes the distribution of extreme values across the folds.
```

Our cross-validation framework systematically evaluated model performance using these partitions, providing robust estimates of accuracy and generalizability.

> To identify the most effective combinations of models and preprocessing techniques, we developed an automated optimization framework based on Optuna, systematically searching for the optimal hyperparameters for each regression target.

Author: ```suggestion
To identify the most effective combinations of models and preprocessing techniques, we developed an automated optimization framework based on Optuna, systematically searching for the optimal configurations for each regression target.
```

> To identify the most effective combinations of models and preprocessing techniques, we employed an automated hyperparameter optimization framework, Optuna, which systematically searched for optimal hyperparameters for each regression target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To identify the most effective combinations of models and preprocessing techniques, we employed an automated hyperparameter optimization framework, using Optuna as its foundation, which systematically searched for optimal hyperparameters for each regression target.
```

Author: ```suggestion
To identify the most effective combinations of models and preprocessing techniques, we utilized an automated hyperparameter optimization framework based on Optuna, systematically searching for the optimal hyperparameters for each regression target.
```

> To identify the most effective combinations of models and preprocessing techniques, we employed an automated hyperparameter optimization framework, Optuna, which systematically searched for optimal hyperparameters for each regression target.

Reviewer: Does this make it sound like we relied solely on Optuna? I think it does a bit. Would like to highlight all the work we put in as well :)

\vspace{0.5em}

The result is a comprehensive catalog of models and preprocessing techniques for predicting major oxide compositions in \gls{libs} data.
This catalog features highly effective configurations for each of the eight major oxides examined in our study.
To further enhance performance, we experiment with stacking ensemble methods using the best-performing configurations for each oxide and three different meta-learners, demonstrating improved performance of approximately 24\%-34\% over baseline \gls{rmsep}.

\vspace{0.5em}

> Our study makes several key contributions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our study makes two key contributions.
```

Firstly, it provides a comprehensive catalog of machine learning models and preprocessing techniques for predicting major oxide compositions in \gls{libs} data.
This catalog presents highly effective configurations, allowing for a more informed selection of models and preprocessing techniques in future work.
Secondly, we contribute directly to the development of \gls{pyhat}, a Python-based toolset by the \gls{usgs} for machine learning and data analysis on hyperspectral data.
The integration of our findings into \gls{pyhat} enhances its capabilities for the scientific community.

\vspace{0.5em}

> In our experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of various machine learning models in predicting major oxide compositions from \gls{libs} data.

Reviewer: Thoughts? Because 'demonstrate' may not be enough for the scope of what we did?

```suggestion
In our experiments, we demonstrate and quantify the effectiveness of various machine learning models in predicting major oxide compositions from \gls{libs} data.
```
